URL: https://bisq.wiki/Bisq_1

Bisq
Bisq
is a decentralized bitcoin exchange network that enables secure, private and censorship-resistant exchange of bitcoin for national currencies and other cryptocurrencies over the internet.
The Bisq application forms a
peer-to-peer network
by discovering, connecting to, and working with one another to implement the Bisq trading protocol. The Bisq network is
fully
peer-to-peer in that it requires no centrally-controlled servers and has no single points of failure.
See more details in the
introduction
.
Why?
Satoshi Nakamoto created Bitcoin to solve the problems of centralized payment systems, so it seems inconsistent for corporate, centralized bitcoin exchanges to be the primary way to acquire bitcoin. It often seems the dominance and vulnerability of centralized exchanges is the Achilles heel in the Bitcoin ecosystem.
Bisq is built on pure P2P infrastructure:
desktop software, Tor, local wallets, and no central accounts
. Furthermore,
it is not a company
, and its governance model actually
incentivizes
the protection of user privacy and freedoms.
While the transfer of national currency requires traditional payment channels like banks and payment processors, Bisq is not dependent on any particular provider. The role of these payment channels is limited to what it should be: transferring national currency. That's it—no censoring, confiscating, monitoring, or controlling your financial transactions.
Bisq is built for those who:
Want to exchange a national currency such as dollars, euros, or yen for bitcoin.
Want to exchange a wide range of alternative cryptocurrencies for bitcoin.
Do not want to trust any entity to hold their funds.
Do not want to forfeit control or privacy to a central authority in order to trade with other individuals.
Regard financial transactions as a form of private speech that should be protected from surveillance by banks, governments, and other institutions.
Using Bisq
Introduction
— what Bisq is and why
Getting started
— complete your first trade in minutes
Downloading and installing
— or
build it yourself
Backing up critical data
—
seed words
and
data directory
Take a tour
— get acquainted with the interface
Payment methods
— supported payment methods and limitations
Trading fees
— competitive rates for unparalleled privacy
Dispute resolution
— what happens when a trade doesn't go smoothly
Support
— where to go when you need support
Installing your own Bitcoin node
— take the next step in Bitcoin self sovereignty
Troubleshooting
— solutions to known issues
Tips and Tricks
— how to get the most out of Bisq (
performance
+
privacy
)
Contributing
Contributor checklist
— see how we think, work, and collaborate
GitHub
— all the code
Current projects
— see what we're up to right now
Network activity and stats
Overview
— trading volume, BSQ issuance, other activity
Trading activity
— all the numbers, in detail
Network monitor
— P2P network activity, Tor metrics, other data
Release stats
— download numbers by release
Community
Matrix
— where everyone hangs out and collaborates
Nostr
and
Twitter
— user-facing announcements and news
Blog
— longer-form updates and perspectives
YouTube
— calls, how-tos, interviews, and more
Forum
— ask questions, post opinions
Reddit
— mingle with other redditors who use Bisq